hello I'm Georgie from Jamie's food team
and I'm going to show you how to prepare
the base for your soup so we've got here
the key ingredients what celery carrots
onions and garlic and this is the
perfect base for any soup not just the
soup we're making today and all of these
will add great flavor sweetness and they
can be used for almost any soup so what
you want to do is if you just remember -
so you want two sticks of celery two
onions two carrots two cloves of garlic
and that will sort you out so start with
the celery now depending on whether or
not you're blitzing your soup or you're
keeping it as a broth or determine how
chunky or fine you want to chop your veg
always have an empty bowl to hand as
well for scraps it just makes it easier
then keep going to dustbin so for the
set oh you don't need to peel it just
trim off the ends and if you want it for
brothy soup it's quite nice to keep it
quite chunky if you're going to blitz up
it doesn't really matter to be honest as
long as you get lots of lovely color and
you soften it you're going to bliss up
anyway so slice up your celery fish
that's one side and now with the carrots
depends on how you know small or fresher
carrots are you can peel with them I'll
just describe them
just let peel these
remove the onion cuts it in half
I always find it easier to take the
outside off if you cut in half first
keep the root intact because that's
where that will help keep the onion
layers together so when you're cutting
it won't fall apart if you chop that off
then you'll be in trouble because then
all the layers will fall apart and
you'll make it much harder to chop so
keep that whole and you can just discard
it at the end and again kind of onions
as fine or chunky as you like depending
on your type of soup and then feed
garlic just need a couple of cloves
I just cut off the end just to make a
bit easier to crush get the skins off so
put the flats of your knife on top of
the garlic using the palm your hair and
just push down let's push too hard and
this is the easiest way to get the skin
off and again you can slice or chop your
garlic I like to slice it just because I
don't like it to burn or catch too
easily and if you chop it too fine it
can catch an even really bitter taste so
just slice it quite fine there you have
it there the base ingredients and all
you have to do now is let them get
lovely bits of color
okay so put it on medium low heat I'm
going to add the garlic first just for a
minute
just cuz I'll get a little bit of color
onto my garlic there we go is getting
lightly golden now so that's perfect
at the rest of your base
a good stir and then literally to saute
the vegetables soft and this will give
you fantastic flavor the base of any
soup so there we have it that's the base
of our soup and as I said before that'll
be the base for almost any soup those
are the key ingredients my lovely and
sticky and sweetened they've been cooked
down and now we've got them to that
stage we can get on with the rest of our
soup okay now we've made our base on a
turn this into really delicious tomato
and basil soup so all we need to do is
we'll turn this back on back onto a
medium heat and we're going to put in a
tin of really good tinned tomatoes
that's on the side and break it up a bit
just put a tin of plum tomatoes and
broken them up a bit
lot of do now is add 3 fresh tomatoes a
nice tip here is actually you could if
you wanted add the stalks as well
because loads of flavor
if you smell that that's actually where
that amazing vine tomatoes smell comes
from it's not the tomatoes themselves
it's the stalks and they'll break down
and actually you know what put them in
as well some chicken stock if you're
vegetarian you can use vegetable 'im
we've got a litre really lovely organic
chicken stock there and then gently just
bring everything to the boil season it
well get some freshly ground black
pepper
good sea salt bring it to the boil and
then simmer it for 15-20 minutes and put
in some fresh basil so I grabbed some
the bigger leaves we can use the little
ones for garnishing later stir that
through I need to now splits it till
it's smooth
there we go that still got a bit of
texture to it which is lovely if you
want it super smooth than just care and
blitzing it that's fine and you can
finish the soup belf however you like
really it's really lovely with like
little basil oil we have to do is crush
up some basil leaves and a pestle and
mortar bash them up with a pinch of salt
really good oil and drizzle that on top
or you could even finish it off with a
really good homemade pesto some shavings
of parmesan or a little chopped red
chili for a little kick that'll be great
so we have it just because I absolutely
love loads of black pepper to put an
extra pinch soup it up a couple of
beautiful little puzzle leaves and
drizzle
there you have it really fantastic and
dead easy tomato and basil soup